---
layout: post
title: My Experience in Computer Science
subtitle: From FLL Robotics to Creating Websites
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [books, test]
---

# My Prior Experience
I always found technology intersting as a child. I always enjoyed using computers and helping my family use their electronics. However, I was never really interested in working in the computer science world until I went to HM in 8th grade. I joined the FLL Robotics Team, and I was able to step foot into the STEM world. Even though I did not enjoy building robots with legos, once I became a freshman and joined the FTC Robotics Team, everything began to make sense. Even thought I was apart of the hardware team, I had taken Computer Science 1 and was taking Computer Science 2.  
In the summer of 2019, I did a program called IFE, which was a program about entrepreneurship and technology. I learned about how to create a bussiness, and working with Google mentors, was able to create my own bussiness plan and website. My partner and I created Éductu, a money management app for college students to teach them how to manage their money. Here is the link to [our presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1q1eAWtvHaypSCmx1g9XECuvYQuvGh8w9rDhDZziCvXE/edit?usp=sharing), and here is the link to [my website](https://ife-eductu.herokuapp.com/). After taking Computer Science 2, I learned I wanted to learn how to program. I applied and was accepted into All Star Code, which is a non-profit organization that helps men of color get into the STEM world. I participated in a six week bootcamp, where I was introduced to p5, JavaScript, and advanced HTML and CSS. I created alot of mini projects, such as a chatroom and a personal website. However, my biggest accomplishment was creating a website for a bussiness idea. We created KiNECT, an application schools can provide to their students tthat serves as a hub for volunteer organizations to post their virtual and local opportunities, while making it easy for students to plan, track, and organize their community service experience. Here is the link to [our presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YnTryo5ze7CXDv6QM1G2uKmgJIVMHboOKDZ8JGX8GRI/edit?usp=sharing), and here is a link to [the website I created](https://justinburrell.github.io/demoDayProject/). This was an amazing experience, and now I am certain I want to program, whether that is programming AI, the next bussiness idea, or using data... I am not too sure about yet. But, I am excited to continue my journey in Computer Science.

# My Interets


# My Future Expectations
